rfx/README.md, before:

# rfx

Primary source tree for rfx, the PyTorch for robots. This directory contains the Rust core, Python API, tests, configs, and examples.

## Directory Structure

- **`crates/`** -- Rust workspace with two crates:
  - `rfx-core` -- core library: math primitives, control loops, hardware drivers, communication, and neural space definitions
  - `rfx-python` -- PyO3 bindings that expose Rust types to Python as the `_rfx` native module
- **`python/`** -- Python package with submodules for the robot protocol, config, simulation backends, real hardware backends, teleoperation, agents, skills, decorators, observation processing, and JIT integration
- **`tests/`** -- pytest suite covering unit tests and integration tests for Rust bindings
- **`configs/`** -- YAML robot configuration files (e.g. `so101.yaml`, `go2.yaml`)
- **`examples/`** -- runnable scripts demonstrating agent control, teleoperation recording, policy deployment, and training

## Core Interface

All robots implement the three-method protocol:

```python
observation = robot.observe()
robot.act(action)
robot.reset()
```

This interface is consistent across simulation, real hardware, and teleoperation.

Commit message:

feat: self-describing policy models.  Save, load, and deploy with zero config

rfx/README.md, after:

# rfx

Primary source tree for rfx, the PyTorch for robots. This directory contains the Rust core, Python API, tests, configs, and examples.

## Directory Structure

- **`crates/`** -- Rust workspace with two crates:
  - `rfx-core` -- core library: math primitives, control loops, hardware drivers, communication, and neural space definitions
  - `rfx-python` -- PyO3 bindings that expose Rust types to Python as the `_rfx` native module
- **`python/`** -- Python package with submodules for the robot protocol, config, simulation backends, real hardware backends, teleoperation, model hub, agents, skills, decorators, observation processing, and JIT integration
- **`tests/`** -- pytest suite covering unit tests and integration tests for Rust bindings
- **`configs/`** -- YAML robot configuration files (e.g. `so101.yaml`, `go2.yaml`)
- **`examples/`** -- runnable scripts demonstrating agent control, teleoperation recording, policy deployment, and training

## Core Interface

All robots implement the three-method protocol:

```python
observation = robot.observe()
robot.act(action)
robot.reset()
```

This interface is consistent across simulation, real hardware, and teleoperation.

## Model Save / Load

Policies are saved as self-describing directories containing weights, architecture config, robot config, and normalizer state. Load with `rfx.load_policy()` to reconstruct everything from metadata:

```python
loaded = rfx.load_policy("runs/go2-walk-v1")
rfx.run(robot, loaded, rate_hz=200)
```

See `python/rfx/hub.py` and `python/rfx/nn.py` for implementation.
